More than 513 million family farms exist worldwide producing about 80% of the world’s food. Those farms account for 70% of all water consumed annually. Family farmers waste 40% of their water resources due to poor irrigation systems, evaporation, and overall poor water management. With the lack of knowledge, farmers are extensively using the water and not running the production responsibly. That leads many developing countries to struggle with water depletion. New solution is necessary to address this issue. Moreover, illiteracy is common among smallholder farmers. For example, it is estimated that 32 percent of India’s rural population is illiterate, and the rate may be even higher among farmers worldwide. Limited access to information (frequently caused by low literacy rates) directly translates into low-efficiency, low-productivity crops, trapping many farmers in a vicious cycle of poverty.

We are introducing “Sensora”, which can speak to the farmers directly to help prevent excess water usage, preserving the most important natural resource. Sensora has sensors, a portable station, and a mobile app. The sensors are set in the soil of the land and transmit the soil moisture and temperature data to the station. With the help of IBM Watson and IBM IoT, Sensora will be able to speak to the farmer about the specific recommendation on irrigation, such as the time to irrigate the soil and the amount of water to use. All the data will be saved in the IBM Storage and can be effectively used to do a regional analysis. The mobile app is useful for farmers who are in a distance from their land and who want to see the integrated real-time data. On the app, the farmer only needs to choose the type of the crop and the stage in which it is being grown. Sensora can also be connected to the other remote devices to support farmers to become responsible producers. 

There are many developed sensors in agriculture right now that provide similar information to farmers. However, Sensora’s primary improvement on the existing sensors is the text-to-speech function. Sensora will tell the data and what to do to farmers out loud, which is especially useful for illiterate farmers and farmers who are not comfortable with technology. As much as technology is evolving and agriculture apps are being developed to reach farmers, the reality is that many farmers are simply not equipped enough to take in and analyse the overflowing information themselves. Through Sensora, we are simplifying the complicated data and vocalizing the steps they need to take to help make agriculture more responsible and sustainable.

In the future, Sensora can evolve to become a sensor that analyses different types of data, such as imagery of the crops and soil quality. Through imagery, Sensora will be able to identify crop diseases and pests. We are hoping to work with different types of technology, such as drones, to broaden the scale of the data we acquire and make our suggestions more precise. 
